# BluetoothBall
Exactly what it says on the tin. Essentially a soft ball with a bluetooth Arduino project board and an accelerometer inside controlling both audio and visuals simultaneously.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KuPIi50k_rc

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alGDfueqvHY

During my experiences with the Arduino Duemilanove, I have come to realise that like most aspects of modern technology, simplicity can often lead to a more successful outcome than that of a more technical nature. Which is why instead of trying to use a large variety of sensors to make an instrument with multiple control features, I decided to try and use a minimal amount of sensors in a way that would harness their potential.
This project consists of:

1x ADXL335 triple axis accelerometer. 

1x Bluetooth Arduino. 

1x battery power supply pack.

1x Foam Ball.

The idea here being to create a ball that could send data wirelessly in order to to create sound and visuals generated by the balls rotation. The patches like the ball itself are incredibly simple, one of the patches (using the Pen class) for visuals was designed to represent the balls position in a 2D environment. I feel that this was effective, and the other visual patch is a patch that has been used in some of my previous work with Pen and modified to suit the parameters of the accelerometer inside the ball. I made two audio patches that I assigned key controls for easy access, they consist of one patch for PMOsc and one for white noise.

One of the disadvantages of this project is that the device has to be taken out upon every use, this is because;

A. I didn't build an on/off switch for the power supply. 

B. You must have access to the button on the Arduino itself to activate the bluetooth connectivity.

These are problems that can be solved fairly simply but must be left to a later date. Ideally I would have liked to have made the ball more stable and secure in order to use it for activities that involve more extreme movement, like for example football. However using the bluetooth Arduino proved to be both stressful, frustrating and involved many hours of trial and error in order for me to operate it to an acceptable level. Although i’m please to have executed to the idea, I still don’t feel I achieved an adequate correlation between physical movement, audio and visuals.
